So we are on to communication, and we're
about to spend about half the rest of
the course talking about communication,
because that is most of this job.
I'm gonna talk about general
principles of communication.
And then I'm gonna apply these principles
talked about here in communication and
technical writing.
And then I'm gonna talk about them
in conjunction with the meetings
cuz these principles here
apply to both of them.
So I wanted to kinda get the general
ones out of the way first, and
then we'll apply them.
So people, you're probably unsurprised I'm
saying this again, but the most important
part about whatever communication you're
doing is who the hell is listening to you?
And what are you trying to get them to do,
and
what are you trying to get out of them?
So just whenever you're writing a doc,
the extremely first question is what
stakeholders am I looking at here?
Who is going to be reading this?
Know your audience.
The way you write a memo to be consumed at
a company with 10,000 people is going to
be wildly different than an abbreviated
executive summary that you're gonna
send to senior leadership of that company,
right?
So know who you're talking to and
know what you want from them.
Have a damn point.
I've read too many docs that
just have no point whatsoever.
It's like, why did I spend
a bunch of time reading this?
This is a bunch of context
that leads me nowhere.
Sometimes, rarely, context sharing
can be the exact point of that.
But usually,
you're trying to inspire action or
you're trying to inspire something
to get done from other people.
Being informational is typically
not enough, so be intentional.
You can want sponsorship of your project,
you can want investment,
you can want additional resources,
whatever that is, but just ask yourself,
who am I talking to?
Why am I talking to them, and
what am I trying to get out of them?
What is success, and what is failure?
So please, where possible,
be explicit of what you want,
and where not possible to be explicit,
be tactical about it.
Yeah, and
lead your audience to the conclusion
that you are hoping to get out of them.
And then sometimes I do find that there
are some opportunities for discovery, so
I'll kind of put hooks in there for people
like, okay, I'm wondering if I tell you
these kinds of things that I'm gonna get
inbound information that I'm looking for.
So you acquiring additional context
can also be a point of whatever
communication that you're engaging in.
So an example I put in here is, we
are working on feature X, but we don't yet
know what the technical problems are, and
then if you send that out as a draft
to a technical organization.
You better believe that all of
those folks in that organization
are going to tell you exactly what's
technically wrong with your project,
cuz people love to tell you
what's wrong with things, right?
So highlighting points of uncertainty can
also lead to opportunities for discovery.
So people, people, people,
know your audience and
know who you're talking to, and
know what you want to get from them.
>> What, and maybe you'll get to this,
is your advice or your strategy for
handling what eventually becomes
a kind of a recursive cycle?
Because we're gonna sit down and
we're gonna write our plan,
we're gonna move forward
with that plan a little bit,
we'll definitely have to go back and
make edits, corrections.
Do you have a way of thinking about that?
Or somewhat, maybe put it tersely,
how do you got to press 80% complete,
knowing that more than
that is probably too much?
>> It depends [LAUGH].
>> I think that's a good answer.
>> It's a sign of a good learning
organization, or to borrow the Microsoft
terminology that I heard way too much,
a growth mindset, right?
If I never hear that again,
I'd be too soon.
To know that whatever your specifications
are or whatever your vision for
something deserves to be revised and
revised frequently.
So having a culture of revision and
a culture of learning and
a culture of applying new
context to old ideas allows for
you to kind of have that
sort of flexibility.
I think software has gotten to a much
different place than it has years ago, and
I, unfortunately,
only can speak in the context of software
cuz that's all I've ever worked on.
But we expect to kind of have
those revisions that we don't,
we're not sending things
off to the manufacturer.
It's a whole different process where you
have to be really sure about what you're
doing before you send things off.
But having a single source
of truth helps that a lot.
Rather than having ten documents
that all talk about the same thing,
it's better to have one doc that is the
plan, and then a bunch of other docs that
refer to the plan, and that you
continually modify the plan over time.
And having a good culture of marking docs
as deprecated as soon as they are not
applicable anymore.
That was a big problem at Stripe,
because Stripe is such a writing culture.
Stripe writes everything down.
Sometimes you'd be looking at docs and it
was like, you would not know that this has
actually been deprecated and
there was new thinking on it.
They got better at it towards the end
of my tenure there, but, yeah,
kind of like the idea of a living document
is my best idea of how to handle that.
Hopefully, that will get explored more
as we keep talking about it, too.